we're gonna do fish and chips these home
shippers yeah you know they're chippers
all over Ireland almost one next door to
almost every pulpit so it's a very
simple dish and it looks oh I've seen
I've seen the finished product it is so
delicious look at how much water we put
a one on one third one and three-quarter
cups of water okay and then we're just a
little sifted flour like to cut about
two cups of flour and we just gradually
add that into the water this is just a
simple flour batter yeah it's very
simple flour batter in England they
would use beer in the batter
but in Ireland we prefer to your
quarters we drink our beer have you ever
tried it with beer no I've tried this
and it makes it a little fluffier than I
like when you find a more slightly more
Brady bathroom art then we use a little
veggies okay quarter teaspoon and okay
that'll make a difference that's gonna
rise the batter just a little bit and
it'll also help to brown it nicely and a
half a teaspoon of salt okay okay so
we'll just mix that until we have a nice
smooth
let's break down slides sorry okay so
we'll take her batter and I like just
pass it through a large hole strainer in
mind just to make sure there are no big
lumps in it and can use our rubber
spatula to get all that out of there and
no lumps so you don't have any no big
ones anyway and you don't have any
pieces of flour in here on your
beautiful fish
okay and then we just let that pass
through there very easily and what kind
of oil do you fry in we I like to use
canola oil no trans fats of course and
you know it's really important with the
oil to make sure that it's clean when
oil gets old and and greasy it'll adhere
to your fish and make it very heavy and
greasy dish now what kind of fish is
that we're using Cod today there are
lots of different fishes that work
really well bust and blue cod is good
which is also known as pollock or
haddock ray is used in Dublin and that's
a you know peasant blue collar dish that
they would serve in the Dolan chippers
so we dredge our fish in a little bit of
flour I'd like to do one for me tonight
right now and then just dip it into the
batter okay and then in a very similar
does the flour just have make the batter
stick a little bit exactly okay exactly
if we don't do flour the batter will
tend to slide off and I mean I don't get
that whole cohesive dish okay so this
looks good
it really just cut it nice yeah and you
see how it's kind of the same thickness
as pancake batter that's what we look
for and the oil should be what
temperature 360 degrees okay okay so we
just swim the fish back and forth in the
same method that you would if you were
making tempura you can use the tongs it
down swim your fingers in there yeah
believe me I've done it more than once
and it takes about seven minutes okay oh
it looks so good and we wash our hands
oh yeah just rinse that that awesome
Mike beautiful
so don't overcrowd the pan you know if
this popular size about four pieces is
perfect okay you don't have to move
anything right now we'll just let it
cook there for a few minutes because we
swam it back and forth it won't stick
too long okay okay so then the next part
of the dish of course is the chips and
and do you make traditional french fries
shape yeah exactly the same the nice
long french fry shape and you use Idaho
potatoes are perfect they've the right
amount of starch so I'll just cut them
into slices first very carefully and you
can lay it down on the side like that
makes it easier right and then we have
I'm gonna take each slice and I like my
chips big like that okay you know nice
you soak them in water or I like to wash
them in water because the it'll wash off
some of the surface starch on it they
won't get too dark and turn brown
okay so then we fry them at 285 degrees
we fried these already yes it first fry
right so they get 10 minutes at 285
degrees and then that's a blanched right
make sure the potatoes are cooked all
the way through okay and then the second
fry will do at 350 degrees just until
they're nice and golden brown
so you put in at a time about so you
don't use a fry basket or no it's not
necessary to use a broad basket you can
use a tabletop deep fryer they work
really well and then you know again we
don't don't want to overcrowd so the oil
doesn't come up too high right just a
bad like that a nice gentle simmer
bubbling away yeah and then look what
comes out gorgeous gorgeous and then you
get the beautiful chips and that fish
looks so beautiful just a little coarse
salt to your favorite salts Morton's
table salt works really well kosher salt
is delicious and what's this and then of
course the classic vinegar salt vinegar
is the wavy surfaces